pipeline: outputs: loki: document structured metadata (#1406)
fluent/fluent-bit-docs: pipeline/outputs/loki.md

| labels | Stream labels for API request. It can be multiple comma separated of strings specifying  `key=value` pairs. In addition to fixed parameters, it also allows to add custom record keys \(similar to `label_keys` property\). More details in the Labels section. | job=fluent-bit |
| label\_keys | Optional list of record keys that will be placed as stream labels. This configuration property is for records key only. More details in the Labels section. |  |
| label\_map\_path | Specify the label map file path. The file defines how to extract labels from each record. More details in the Labels section. | |

> | structured\_metadata | Optional comma separated list of `key=value` strings specifying structured metadata for the log line. Like the `labels` parameter, values may also reference record keys via record accessors. More details in the Structured Metadata section. | |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| structured\_metadata | Optional comma-separated list of `key=value` strings specifying structured metadata for the log line. Like the `labels` parameter, values can reference record keys using record accessors. See [Structured metadata](#structured-metadata) for more information. | |
```

Author: Funny enough I originally wrote "comma-separated" as well, as that's clearly correct, but later removed the hyphen for consistency with the exist `labels` field which doesn't hyphenate it. :)

job="fluentbit", team="Santiago Wanderers"
```

> ### Structured Metadata

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Structured metadata
```

> [Structured metadata](https://grafana.com/docs/loki/latest/get-started/labels/structured-metadata/) allows attaching custom fields to individual log lines without needing to embed the information in the content of the log line. This is particularly useful for high cardinality data for which labels are ill-suited. Although technically not labels, from a configuration perspective the `structured_metadata` configuration parameter behaves similarly to the `labels` parameter: both are comma-delimited `key=value` lists, and both may use record accessors to reference keys within the record being processed.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
[Structured metadata](https://grafana.com/docs/loki/latest/get-started/labels/structured-metadata/)
lets you attach custom fields to individual log lines without embedding the
information in the content of the log line. This capability works well for high
cardinality data that isn't suited for using labels. While not a label, the
`structured_metadata` configuration parameter operates similarly to the `labels`
parameter. Both parameters are comma-delimited `key=value` lists, and both can use
record accessors to reference keys within the record being processed.
```

> Consider the following example:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The following configuration:

- Defines fixed values for the cluster and region labels.
- Uses the record accessor pattern to set the namespace label to the namespace name as
  determined by the Kubernetes metadata filter (not shown).
- Uses a structured metadata field to hold the Kubernetes pod name.
```

```python
[OUTPUT]
    name                loki
    match               *
    labels              cluster=my-k8s-cluster, region=us-east-1, namespace=$kubernetes['namespace_name']
    structured_metadata pod=$kubernetes['pod_name']
```

> This configuration defines fixed values for the cluster and region labels, uses the record accessor pattern to set the namespace label to the namespace name as determined by the kubernetes metadata filter (not shown in the example), and uses a structured metadata field to hold the pod name.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

> Other common uses for structured metadata include trace and span ids, process and thread ids, and log levels.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Other common uses for structured metadata include trace and span IDs, process and thread IDs, and log levels.
```

> Structured metadata is only officially supported starting with Loki 3.0 and should not be used with Loki deployments that lack support.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Structured metadata is supported starting with Loki 3.0, and shouldn't be used with
Loki deployments prior to Loki 3.0.
```

Author: @lockewritesdocs The reason for my choice of language was that structured metadata *did* work in Loki prior to v3.0 (since 2.9.0) but it didn't go GA until then.  Many Loki deployments used structured metadata prior it being GA -- I even had a Grafana engineer tell me they've been using it Grafana Cloud for a good while and even though the docs hadn't been updated yet it was highly unlikely to change.  But the feature was there, and the config option to enable it was also there, it was just marked as experimental.

In light of that, do you think it's appropriate to reword, or continue with what you proposed?

Reviewer: @jtackaberry, appreciate the explanation! Given that the feature was officially supported in Loki 3.0, I think we can say:

>Structured metadata is officially supported starting with Loki 3.0, and shouldn't be used with Loki deployments prior to Loki 3.0.

That statement says, "You shouldn't use this feature with Loki deployments prior to 3.0," but that doesn't mean you _can't_ use it. Just more of a "Use at your own risk" scenario. I updated my suggested change to include "officially supported" -- does that work for you?

Author: Yep, cheers!
